---
layout: post
title: Domain Driven Design!
---

## Three Basic Rules

### 1) The model and the heart of the design shape eachother.

There is a deep connection between the model and the actual implementation that make the model actually relevent. **Implimentation** is crucial to ensuring proper maintenance and continuous development.

#### What does this mean for our team?

We must ensure that the code quality stays under scruitiny, we must develop a proper testing environment around our implementations, and code should be reasonably configurable.

### 2) The model is the backbone of a language used by all team members.

Developers should be able to have meaningful and understood conversations with the domain experts. 

The idea behind having a **ubiquitous language** is that through a healthy line of communication between domain experts (Julie Calderon) and the development team, the model will be iteratively improved. AKA, the more we are able to discuss, the better the resulting product will be.

### 3) The model is distilled knowledge.

The model is a team-wide agreement of how domain knowledge is structured. 



## In action, things to consider when being a developer

Technical people enjoy quantifiable problems that exercise their technical skills.
A lot of developers are not necessarily going to care/have the skillset of understanding a domain. 
This is where (Mikkal McNulty)'s role as a bridge between business knowledge and techical understanding will be put in action.



## More on Ubiquitous Language 

Use the model as the backbone of a language. Commit the team to exercising that language relentlessly in all communication within the team and in the code. Use the same language in diagrams, writing, and especially speech.

**Recognize that a change in the UBIQUITOUS LANGUAGE is a change to the model.**

Domain experts should object to terms or structures that are awkward or inadequate to convey domain understanding; developers should watch for ambiguity or inconsistency that will trip up design.

To contact me: [mikkal.dev@gmail.com](mailto:mikkal.dev@gmail.com)